Document Processing and Retrieval-Augmented QA System
=====================================================

This repository contains a collection of Python scripts designed to automate the conversion of web content to PDFs, process those PDFs into a searchable vector index using FAISS, and utilize that index in a retrieval-augmented QA system. These tools are built on top of powerful libraries such as OpenAI's language models, BeautifulSoup for HTML parsing, pandas for data manipulation, and FAISS for efficient similarity search.

The langchain templates were created to align job postings with college program descriptions but they can be easily modified for your specific needs.

Overview
--------

*   `download.py`: Fetches web pages specified in an Excel file, converts them to PDFs, and stores them locally.
*   `pdf_to_faiss.py`: Processes the downloaded PDFs, extracts text, generates vector representations using OpenAI embeddings, and creates a FAISS index for efficient retrieval.
*   `rag_qa.py`: Implements a retrieval-augmented question answering system that leverages the FAISS index to enhance responses with relevant context extracted from the processed documents.

Getting Started
---------------

### Prerequisites

*   Python 3.6+
*   Pip for installing dependencies

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository**:

git clone git@github.com:akianja/career-app.git
cd your-repo-name

2.  **Install the required dependencies:**:
pip install -r requirements.txt

### Configuration

*   Ensure you have an **OpenAI API key** for using OpenAI's models. This key should be set in a `.env` file in the root directory as `OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here`.
*   The `download.py` script requires an **Excel file (`codes.xlsx`)** containing URLs in the first column. Make sure this file exists and is correctly formatted.
*   PDFs generated by `download.py` are stored in **`downloaded_pdfs`** directory, which is used by `pdf_to_faiss.py` for processing. Ensure this directory is present or modify the scripts accordingly if you choose a different directory.


### Running the Scripts

1.  **Convert web content to PDFs**:
python download.py

Ensure `codes.xlsx` is in the root directory and properly formatted.

2.  **Create a FAISS index from PDFs**:
python pdf_to_faiss.py

This script processes all PDFs in `downloaded_pdfs` and generates a `faiss_index` file.

**Run the retrieval-augmented QA system**:

**Launch Chainlit**:
chainlit run rag_qa.py -w

